so the in list we've built so far can
technically do all the list stuff you
might want to do that's a little awkward
to use as we can see from the syntax now
in this case building a list Lots a
little awkward isn't so bad we'll find
that things like getting the ice element
from the list or asking for the size of
this list are going to be quite annoying
to do so to deal with this what we're
going to do is add a size method and an
iterative size method that are going to
behave kind of like the length method in
Python so in Python we might do
something like print Ling of L and we
expect it to say three there are three
items in the list so we're gonna do
right now is write a method for int list
that takes care of that for us so that
we can ask for example what is the size
of our list okay so we could technically
write a loop here or do whatever to get
besides the loop what I want to do
instead is write a method to make it
easier for the user because it certainly
shouldn't be the case that someone
should have to loop over a data
structure in order to get its size it
should be easy for the person using the
list so what I'm going to encourage you
to do at this point is you should
consider writing the size map that are
thinking about how it's gonna be written
and I'm gonna make a note here which is
that this method is going to return the
size of the list using recursion so if
you are little rusty on this this is
great practice you can think what should
this method maybe look like so pause the
video maybe but I'll go through it now
so hopefully you're pretty familiar with
recursion you're comfortable with it to
some degree and if not you know bummer
that your prerequisites aren't great but
you know you'll catch up I don't know if
this gesture was that I just did that
was like a sad face gesture but didn't
really commit to it I guess anyway so in
a recursive method what we always need
is a base case correct us what we're
gonna do is think about what the base
case might be so what is the type of
list where we know the size well it's
gonna be one where we can say it the
rest is null if the rest is null that
means we have a first value and nothing
else in which case we should return what
one so we have a list it only has one
thing
then the rest will be known will return
one now if that's not the case then what
well in that case we know that it's
gonna be one plus however big the rest
of the list is and we can get that by
just asking for this got rest dot sighs
so I'm going to ask my rest like you
know it's also a necklace what size are
you and assuming the list is well-formed
will eventually get this base case and
we'll get a nice answer now it may be
the case that you're not super
comfortable with recursion which case
I'm going to run this thing through the
visualizer and if you're ready feeling
pretty comfortable with this this might
be a little boring but let's check it
out and see how it goes first of all
let's just click last and make sure we
get the right answer and so indeed we do
we get three which means that print it
out correctly so let's run through it
step by step
after the int list SAR all created we
finally get to the point where we're
gonna ask for the size so we say 2l hey
what size are you so L takes over and
now L is this and thinks okay is my rest
null no okay so what I should do then is
I should ask my buddy right here but
it's size s and I'll add one to that so
I go over here and this is my middle
list and it says okay yeah now I'm
active list so as my rest don't know so
I'm gonna return one plus my buddy's
size finally we get to this last list
it's the active list and that list says
yes okay you know what rest is null I'm
a tiny list I have no successors there's
no rest
so my size is just one so I'm gonna tell
the world I'm gonna shout it onto the
rooftops whoever who was asking my
return value is 1 ok great your return
value is 1 so if my sub list is size 1
then my size must be 2
and so I returned to finally we get back
to this list and it has reported that
its rest is size 2 now if my rest is
size 2 and I'm only one additional value
I'm gonna add 1 to that and I will
finally return 3 and that's
all story